# D-Grasp: Physically Plausible Dynamic Grasp Synthesis for Hand-Object Interactions

## 1. Introduction


A key problem in computer vision is to understand how
humans interact with their surroundings. Because hands
are our primary means of manipulation with the physical
world, there has been an intense interest in hand-object pose
estimation [5, 14–16, 20, 41, 42] and the synthesis of static
grasps for a given object [20, 22, 26, 41]. However, human
grasping is not limited to a single time instance, but involves
a continuous interaction with objects in order to move them.
Mustard - grasp 5 - sequence 11
It requires maintaining a stable grasp throughout the inter- action, introducing intricate dynamics to the task. This in- volves reasoning about the complex physical interactions between the dexterous hand and the manipulated object, including collisions, friction, and dynamics. A generative model that can synthesize realistic and physically plausi- ble object manipulation sequences would have many down- stream applications in AR/VR, robotics and HCI.

We propose the new task of dynamic grasp synthesis. Given an object with a known 6D pose and a static grasp reference, our goal is to generate a grasping motion and to move the object to a target 6D pose in a natural and physically-plausible way. This new setting adds several challenges. First, the object geometry and the spatial con- figuration of the object and the hand need to be considered in continuous interaction. Second, contacts between the hand and object are crucial in maintaining stability of the grasps, where even a small error in hand pose may lead to an object slipping. Moreover, contact is typically unobserv- able in images [11] and measuring the stability of a grasp is very challenging in a static setting. Finally, synthesizing se- quences of hand motion requires the generation of smooth and plausible trajectories. While prior work investigates the control of dexterous hands by learning from full demonstra- tion trajectories [12, 34], we address the generation of hand motion from only a single-frame grasp reference. This is a more challenging setting, because the generation of human- like hand-object interaction trajectories without dense su- pervision is not straightforward.
